---
id: "2025-02-06"
aliases:
  - February 6, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 6, 2025

main thoughts:
- people are starting to notice stand-ups are a waste of time
- finish your fucking projects (e.g. jumping around is a time waster and frustrating)

i've always been against standups they always seemed like such a waste of time. i get that a manager might feel like they get something out of it but on a engineering level it does fuck all. at best it improves social connections of the team, which is great, but could probably be done better than listing off a todo list each morning. it feels like one of those things that makes sense on paper but in practice doesn't. you end up with managers using it as a monitoring tool (which it is not) and employees using it to further their career but mentioning all the awesome things they did and will do (also, not the purpose). the idea is that it helps the team get unblocked faster, but, if you've a team of adults that you pay a large sum of money and they can't figure out to get unblocked by themselves, i have bad news for you. that's very bad. also, you don't record these meetings, you have no real way of tracking what was dicussed. it just becomes one of those things that you do but you think you have to do it. like adding nit comments to a pr, worthless. it seems to be more and more accepted that after the money-crazed time during the zero-interest rate period, people are realizing how much bullshit we were doing just because the big faang companies did it. and it might be completely reasonable for them to do it but most companies are not faang and shouldn't blindly copy their practices. like adopting a microservices architecture because SCALE.

unfinished and long-running projects without visual progress is the recipe for burnout. when you continuously have a work environment where things/features/projects never gets marked as done, it starts to feel bland and a bit pointless. what am i doing every day when there are no tangible results for that work. i imagine this is why a lot of software developers think they want to quit their job and buy a farm. you can see and feel the results of your labor. and no more standups! but, you also have to get up at fuck o'clock every day and milk the cows, feed the pigs/chickens/etc. most would likely regret that decision. the cure, at least in my opionion, is to limit a piece of work to a period of time where X is the desired output and dont start anything else for that period. just that for a team of 3-4 people and you'd be more likely to arrive at something tangible after each period. something they can see and interact with. the porblem likely exist because the diffeent levels of an organisation has completely different workflows. PMs and directores are trying to apply an optimizing algo to the problem solving department and it's a recipe for disaster and burnout.

i do think the 37signals way of doing has a lot of promise but i have yet to work in an org that fully commited to it. there are always minor changes. like we do sprints but we also try to point estimate work (just another way of trying to gauge a deadline), or the scope continously get changed so all the work done to estimate/plan.
