---
id: "2025-01-30"
aliases:
  - January 30, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# January 30, 2025

main thoughts:
- weird putting myself on thumbnails
- produce more content
- ai seems to really well with boilerplate code to assist
- shitty results is the required first step to great resutls

Had to overcome my fear of putting my face on thumbnails; it's the way the content game is going (and honestly have been for a long time, humans like seeing human faces) so probably no way around it if I want to have people see my stuff. There is some, what we in denmark call jantelov, about it. Basically, who tf do you think you are putting your face on youtube. I don't know, will see how it works out.

I want to put out more content so started playing around with the idea of starting a solo podcasts that will put out an episode once per week. It will be around entrepreneurship and consulting in software. I'm going to attempt to write some daily thoughts throughout the week and then collect them all for an episode. Probably only going to be around 10-15 mins but is probably a good start.

Been working on my starter template, grafto, and it's getting very close to a v1 release. I'm still missing setup for integration and e2e tests but have added a nice setup for creating seed data. It's quite verbose but using AI to write it for me makes it a huge win. As long as it has some examples it does quite well especially when providing it with common patterns. The experience reminded me of an article I read by David Crawshaw, found of tailscale, where he talks about how using llms for coding might see an increase in more specialized code at the expense of less dry code. Which in my opinion isn't the worst thing in the world; so many worthless and leaky abstractions has been made in the name of keeping code dry. Often the code just becomes hardto reason about and read. It would be tedious to implement the seeding functionality for each table in the database but with the help from AI, you get it done in a few secs. This increases my believe in the value of boilerplate/templates repositories for starting new projects. As long as you have a solid base you can move fast in a sustainable way.

Took a look of the early videos of my course and the latest one, and I personally believe there has been a huge increase in quality. The first few videos I made was not really something that made me particularly proud, but the process at the beginning was so long that I just needed to put something out.

I was struggling with how to record, what settings to use for OBS, how to get good audio input. Should I use a script, should I first record myself coding and then talkover it. Or vice versa. It has been quite a long process but I'm now getting to the point where my biggest issue is the fact that my office is right next to an old school elevator that makes a fuck ton of noise. And to top it off, our next door neighbour is doing renovations so there is __alot__ of drilling atm. But that's managable, when those two elements are not in the way the product is starting to become something I'm proud of. I still need to go back en re-record the first videos of golang blog course but it will be after all the episode has been finished.
