---
id: "2025-02-11"
aliases:
  - February 11, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 11, 2025

main thoughts:
- doing too many things at once is the bane of your existence
- spec out build dumb and simple features to validate core hypotheses
- new features should only use borders and grayscale as styling or focusing on the meat
- the direction of software shouldn't be a democracy or few people set the direction, many people focus on getting there

i've yet to see people effectively managing multiple projects at the same time. there is always downtime due to either mixing things, forgetting discussions and having to reiterate arguments, unclear vision and half-baked decision making. you'd often see it in tech: can you just get started on xyz and tell me the best way to do each of them? this almost never leads to good products in my opionion. context switching in creative work leads to making incorrect assumptions like how hard can this be, we are just going to do x etc. 

when building out something new, don't try and reach a polish product, you should probably just built the UI in grayscale with some basic borders so you force yourself to focus on the core functionality. your object should be to valid some core hypotheses you have about that product, polished UIs shouldn't be a part of this. when working in a team it's critical to make this clear to people: least amount of ui to get the job done, iterate over on what and how the job is completed and then finally you can polish.

when i started out in software i was all about a democratised development flow, all should have an opionion. the more time i spend in software, the more i go away from this line of thinking. you should have a few key decision makers that sets the direction and a bunch of people that work on making it a reality. too many cooks spoil the broth. everyone wants to have an opionion but don't have a base for it, it's grounded in nothing. when you are too flexible in your decision making process, the indiviual team members start having their own ideas of what something should be which causes a ton of misalignment. this shouldn't happen. your job as the technical person is to make sure the problem is solved in the best technical way possible, for its current state. aim is to have a few people working extremely focused on 1 thing until it's done so we minimize context switching as much as possible.
