---
id: "2025-02-10"
aliases:
  - February 10, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 10, 2025

main thoughts:
- just pay for stuff
- starting to use managed services more
- techo/electronic is the music to hammer out work

i've always loved to tinker with tech; it was an outlet for creativity and learning new things so i naturally shifted towards self-hosting as much as possible. everything from servers to databases to load balancers. it's such a wealth of knowledge to dig into how you can do what the big providers do, by yourself. there is also a financial incentive. often you'd get 4-5 times as much computation when selfhosting compared to choosing a managed solution. for a long time, the only application i had on my own was my blog. if something went down it wasn't really that critical. so selfhosting and fucking up every now and then was not that big of a deal. but now that i'm building a paid course that have paid users, all of a sudden, i don't really want to fuck up the database or have a lot of downtime. someone paid money for this and they should have access whenever they want. 

particularly with database i've tended to stay away from managed solution. it gets expensive FAST. but i've started to move some of my databases into a managed solution too see how it perform. it's mainly due to not wanting to setup and managed my backups. i know how to do it but i don't have time between building the course and consulting fulltime. the 15 bucks each month is well worth it. i still think developers should pursue selfhosting, at least for learning purposes. but when starting out with a new commercial endeavour i'm starting to doubt if it's worth your while to spend time setting up a robust load balancer, server and database. it's not a big deal to setup but you'd still need to spend a few days setting everything up and get backs automated. it takes time that, if you don't have a collection of code to copy from, could probably be used better else where. if i could live off of my course fulltime i would probably take a day or two to get everything setup properly on a cluster of vpses. but now, managed solutions are looking more and more enticing.

it's the developers dilemma. you know you could probably build something yourself instead of paying for it, and then you end up spending a ton of time building that thing. and you're probably right, you could/can, but that time is probably better spent else. it's a lesson i've to learn and re-learn, again.

been experiencing some issues with concentration lately. i put on a podcast and have to check x/twitter/youtube/linkedin every other minute. it's reaching a point of frustration since i'm not getting as much done as i would like. whenever i get to that point, i tend to try and put on some techo/electronic music with noise cancellation turned all the way up so i'm completely alone, set a timer and just start typing.

