---
id: "2025-03-03"
aliases:
  - March 3, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# March 3, 2025

main thoughts:
- choosing boring and stable technologies are becoming a competitive advantage
- start-ups with fancy looking UIs could be a signal that time/effort has not been spent on product

recently switched over to bootstrap for my styling purposes and it made my life easier-i've long been looking for ways to optimize the compile step/part of using tailwind. not that it needed to be smaller but it would stall and crash randomly when the codebase got large enough. i'm sure they do some clever tricks in an SPA type codebase but for my needs it didn't work as expected. OOM errors consistently. it has been made easier with vite but still, you need a compiler to consistently run while developing to handle your fucking stylesheet. as i've grown older i've begun to optimize for output, what tools can i use the gives me the highest change of finishing a product in a relative timely and robust manner. we all have preferences. mine is definitely not css. so as long as i can get something i can personalize or "brand" with the option for customizatoin but a bunch of components and reponsive layouts, i'm all for it. bootstrap is that something.

i've started to regard startups with fancy looking UIs as a signal that they might not have spent a ton of time on the product. ofc it depends on the product. but if the site is looking fancy with a bunch of means-nothing words, i'm very suspect of the product. it could be they just hired a cracked frontend engineer that just pushed out a banger on his/her own. but likely not. software is a collaboratory effort and that requires centralized decision making on what should be prioritized. a certain amount of identify and "freshness" is required. can't just go around and have IE looking websites anymore.
