---
id: "2025-02-26"
aliases:
  - February 26, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 26, 2025

main thoughts:
- make testing easy and people will start finding it fun (often difficult with SPA + json api apps)
- vague requirements results in shitty software

adversity to testing, in my experience, stems from it being hard to setup and configure. you should be able to setup the core pieces fairly easy and have them be quick to run. fast feedback and less hassle is the key. this obviously becomes harder as the codebase grow. having just added integration tests to grafto it still feels more like an art than a science to know what and how much to test. 

one huuuge benefit of not doing the SPA+json api split is that it becomes much easier to test entire flows. an integration test in a traditional app could almost be classified as an e2e test in SPA+json api setup. you get to test much more when client/server are basically the same thing. you can test client "state" without spinning up a headless browser.

---

vague requirements will one day be the death of me. i'm absolutely certain that if you cannot specify different versions of whatever you're building, you don't have the proper understanding. you should be able to say "based on what i want to do, the absolute minimum it should be able to do is this". like you want to create a upload service. the absolute minimum is an input field that accepts a file, uploads it to s3 and returns a response message. that's incredibly simple and actionable. 

if it's absolutely impossible to create a simple explanation you likely want/need to explore an area more deeply. this is totally fine and normal. but you need to find the pencil and draw some squiggly lines to try and uncover what's hidden in the marble. the most important thing here is to FINISH THE EXPLORATION BEFORE CHANGING. this means you built whatever you agree on, test it and then make adjustments. changing all the time is not the win you think it is.
