---
id: "2025-02-05"
aliases:
  - February 5, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 5, 2025

main thoughts:
- you should be able to figure what small pieces of code do in another programming language
- communication is the hardest part of building software
- if you're not directly in a piece of work, defer to the person that are

in the age of llms, you should know how to take a piece of code in a programming languge you don't know and get a rough understanding of what it does. in general, after a few years of coding you should know how to look at code in another language, and get a rough idea of what it does. that does not mean you need to be able to understand the finer details of the linux codebase. there has been a push for specialization in either frontend, backend or infra in the last many years where it has deemed acceptable to say "i just do X, i don't know about y". you should have a rough idea of the entire stack. you don't need to know how to configure and manage a large kubernetes cluster, but you should know the basics of it. or have a working idea of how a vps work and how to setup an application on it. you should, likewise, have a idea of the ecosystem of the thing you're not going deep in. i'm mainly doing backend these days but to just dismiss anything that happens in frontend is not ok. i don't know the inner workings of react anymore but i have a working understanding. explore more.

when i first started out in tech it was at a small consulting house; they were excited about the combination of my educational background in finance and business and my skills as a developer, I could be the link that magically connected the two. i never really were and haven't been since. often I find business people wanting to be able to talk tech but they are not aware of their missing knowledge and understanding, so you end up going around in circles. what i try to do now is to speak on an outcome level as much as possible, i.e. what do you want and expect to happen. i also try and do this across tech departments, always focus on expected outcomes and i fairly often get to an understanding. but not always, this is not an exact science.

you really should focus on finishing work before starting new things up. maybe a singular person can run multiple pieces of work in parallel but not in a team. if everyone is bugged down with their own tasks with no real connection between team members, you have an environment that's ripe for wasted time and frustrations. you never really seem to get anything done, which is frustrating, and you never really seem to have the same understanding as your team members, which leads to more frustrations.
