---
id: "2025-02-03"
aliases:
  - February 3, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 3, 2025

main thoughts:
- optimize for output
- sit down and press record

when I first started making videos it was a very frustrating and tedious process which mainly arised from the fact that I had to learn a ton of new things. The best way to get out of that is just doing it more. The more I did the more I learned and the better my process became. Today, I sat down and recorded a video but since I'm obessing over audio quliaty I'm recording on my ipad and editing it together with the recorded content. It works but it also adds another failure point which occurred today by me accidentially using the wrong mic and had to throw away an hours worth of recordings. I can record everyting into one file by runing everything through my laptop but doing the audio separatly with the ipad improves the audio by like 5% maybe, if even that. There is a difference since my equipment is meant for macos and I'm on linux. But it's not a lot. And today it just lost me an hour of work because I don't just accept this small limitation and run it all through the laptop.

the less obstacles in the creative process the better. just sitting down and pressing record is the ideal setup. when you start to introduce multiple required changes compared to your "regular" setup, things go wrong. now, loosing an hour of work is not the end of the world but since I'm doing this while also working full-time, it really adds up. the video I recorded after i changed the setup to run through the laptop is not the best. it's OK but the first round was way better. Probably due to frustrations that just builds up after things not working.
