---
id: "2025-02-04"
aliases:
  - February 4, 2025
tags:
  - daily-thoughts
---

# February 4, 2025

main thoughts:
- setting up integration & e2e tests in grafto
- content is long term
- fast iteration requires being comfortable with half-baked

one of my most viewed articles is an old one I did on how to setup integration tests for rest style apis in Go. it has really picked up pase in the last 3-4 months. I've also been working on a starter template that aims at providing a solid base from which to build full-stack applications using Go. I would like to have an easy way of running integration and e2e tests when using grafto so it provided a good opportunity for picking that article up again and giving it a fresh coat of paint. for the article I was heaily relying on docker compose to setup everything. i have in recent years focused on minimzing dependencies so that if I can get away with it I would prefer not to add something like docker. this is note a dig at docker though, I still use it for deploying all my applications. but, there has been new libraries made that makes it super easy to spin up things like a database directly in go code. i was also relying on a large sql file for providing seed data. i do recommend this approach, especially if you're just starting to add tests to a codebase. but it's not optimal. so I build a way to provide seed data that relies on using the same models that we would use for regular data operations. basically, it wraps the optional pattern around the models defined in the application and lets you quickly add data to test against. this approach has, so far, worked out quite well. it does require you to spend some time implemeting the seed functions but with the advent of llms this process is super smooth, once you have some basic examples to pull from. just point it to a model, and tell it to implement seed functionality based on existing seeds, make a few adjustments and you're off to the races. still need some iterations but looks really well. the great thing about this setup is that it only requires you to run `go test ./...` and your good. i probably still need some mocks for services like emails but that shouldn't be too much of an issue.

content is a long-term game. my own website has really started to pick up pase with not that many articles. i've always been slow in releasing articles and try each year to push for more releases. maybe some day, but it goes to show how important it is to put things out there in the world. i'm starting to see my content being referenced by perplexity and chatgpt. search is definitely changing, so get the content out there now so it gets included in the training data.

there are a ton of different ideas on what fast iteration means and when something can be considered ready to test. i think this is an area that most software developers do really badly. they are used to considering every option and corner case under the sun. so how can you ship something that can barely stand upright on it's own. might be a problem of seeing the bigger picture. we want to make sure the foundation is solid before we commit to a path. that requires the ability to view something half-baked as an early piece of a bigger structure. when teams are misaligned on what actually goes for "good enough" you'll have tons of wasted time and frustrations. one part is waiting on the other, not understanding why things takes so long.
